PROGRESS.md, before:

# Issue #14: Add antidepressants item drop from NPCs

## Status: COMPLETE ✓

## Summary

Successfully implemented antidepressants as a rare loot drop from NPCs. When NPCs are defeated, there is a 5% chance they will drop an antidepressants item. This item can be consumed by the player but has no effect (inert item).

## Implementation Details

### Changes Made

1. **Material.java** (line 81)
   - Added `ANTIDEPRESSANTS("Antidepressants")` enum value

2. **NPCManager.java** (lines 986-989)
   - Added 5% chance for any non-dog NPC to drop antidepressants when defeated
   - Implemented in `awardNPCLoot()` method

3. **InteractionSystem.java** (lines 193-196, 230)
   - Added antidepressants to consumables list in `isFood()` method
   - Added consumption handler that removes item but applies no effects (inert)

### Tests Added

1. **NPCLootDropIntegrationTest.java** (test8_AntidepressantsRareDrop)
   - Statistical test: defeats 100 NPCs and verifies 1-15 antidepressant drops (5% ± variance)
   - Confirms the rare drop mechanic works correctly

2. **ConsumablesAndCraftingIntegrationTest.java** (2 tests)
   - `testAntidepressantsIsRecognisedAsConsumable()`: Verifies antidepressants are recognized as a consumable
   - `testConsumeAntidepressantsDoesNothing()`: Confirms consuming antidepressants has no effect on health, hunger, or energy

## Test Results

All tests pass successfully:
- **418 tests completed, 0 failures** ✓
- Build: **SUCCESSFUL** ✓
- NPCLootDropIntegrationTest: **8/8 tests passed** ✓
- ConsumablesAndCraftingIntegrationTest: **17/17 tests passed** ✓

## What Was Already Done (Prior Sessions)

The previous session (2026-02-22T23:46:17.045Z) completed all the implementation work:
- Added ANTIDEPRESSANTS material enum
- Implemented 5% drop rate in NPCManager
- Made antidepressants consumable with no effect
- Created comprehensive integration tests

This session verified everything works correctly and documented the completion.

## What's Left

**Nothing code-wise** - Issue #14 is complete and ready to close.

### PR Creation Status

The code is complete, tested, committed, and pushed to the `issue-14` branch. However, creating a PR via `gh pr create` has failed in previous sessions with:
```
GraphQL: Resource not accessible by personal access token (createPullRequest)
```

This indicates the GitHub personal access token lacks the `repo` scope needed to create pull requests programmatically.

**Options to complete the PR:**
1. **Manual PR creation**: Visit https://github.com/zac-williamson/ragamuffin/compare/main...issue-14 to create the PR via the GitHub web UI
2. **Update token permissions**: Regenerate the token with the `repo` scope at https://github.com/settings/tokens

The branch is ready to merge - all code changes are complete and tested.

---
_Completed: 2026-02-22_

Commit message:

Update PROGRESS.md: document verification session findings

PROGRESS.md, after:

# Issue #14: Add antidepressants item drop from NPCs

## Status: COMPLETE ✓

## Summary

Successfully implemented antidepressants as a rare loot drop from NPCs. When NPCs are defeated, there is a 5% chance they will drop an antidepressants item. This item can be consumed by the player but has no effect (inert item).

## Implementation Details

### Changes Made

1. **Material.java** (line 81)
   - Added `ANTIDEPRESSANTS("Antidepressants")` enum value

2. **NPCManager.java** (lines 986-989)
   - Added 5% chance for any non-dog NPC to drop antidepressants when defeated
   - Implemented in `awardNPCLoot()` method

3. **InteractionSystem.java** (lines 193-196, 230)
   - Added antidepressants to consumables list in `isFood()` method
   - Added consumption handler that removes item but applies no effects (inert)

### Tests Added

1. **NPCLootDropIntegrationTest.java** (test8_AntidepressantsRareDrop)
   - Statistical test: defeats 100 NPCs and verifies 1-15 antidepressant drops (5% ± variance)
   - Confirms the rare drop mechanic works correctly

2. **ConsumablesAndCraftingIntegrationTest.java** (2 tests)
   - `testAntidepressantsIsRecognisedAsConsumable()`: Verifies antidepressants are recognized as a consumable
   - `testConsumeAntidepressantsDoesNothing()`: Confirms consuming antidepressants has no effect on health, hunger, or energy

## Test Results

All tests pass successfully:
- **418 tests completed, 0 failures** ✓
- Build: **SUCCESSFUL** ✓
- NPCLootDropIntegrationTest: **8/8 tests passed** ✓
- ConsumablesAndCraftingIntegrationTest: **17/17 tests passed** ✓

## What Was Already Done (Prior Sessions)

The previous session (2026-02-22T23:46:17.045Z) completed all the implementation work:
- Added ANTIDEPRESSANTS material enum
- Implemented 5% drop rate in NPCManager
- Made antidepressants consumable with no effect
- Created comprehensive integration tests

This session verified everything works correctly and documented the completion.

## What's Left

**Nothing code-wise** - Issue #14 is complete and ready to close.

### PR Creation Status

The code is complete, tested, committed, and pushed to the `issue-14` branch. However, creating a PR via `gh pr create` has failed in previous sessions with:
```
GraphQL: Resource not accessible by personal access token (createPullRequest)
```

This indicates the GitHub personal access token lacks the `repo` scope needed to create pull requests programmatically.

**Options to complete the PR:**
1. **Manual PR creation**: Visit https://github.com/zac-williamson/ragamuffin/compare/main...issue-14 to create the PR via the GitHub web UI
2. **Update token permissions**: Regenerate the token with the `repo` scope at https://github.com/settings/tokens

The branch is ready to merge - all code changes are complete and tested.

---

## Session 2026-02-22T23:XX:XX (Current Session) - Verification

**Purpose**: Diagnosed why previous sessions appeared to fail and verified the implementation.

**Findings**:
- ✅ All code changes are complete and correct
- ✅ Tests still passing (418/418)
- ✅ Build successful
- ✅ Branch properly pushed to `origin/issue-14`
- ✅ No PR exists yet (verified with `gh pr list`)

**Root Cause of "Failures"**: Previous sessions didn't fail - they successfully completed all implementation work. The only "failure" was the inability to automate PR creation due to GitHub token permissions. This is purely an administrative issue, not a code issue.

**Recommendation**: Create the PR manually via the GitHub web UI at the link above. All technical work for issue #14 is complete.

---
_Completed: 2026-02-22_
